Section 1. Oracle Database Architecture
Oracle Database Architecture – learn about the Oracle Database architecture and its components.
Oracle Listener – introduce the Oracle Listener and show you how to manage the Oracle Listener such as starting, stopping, and checking its status

Section 2. Database Administrative Tasks
Start Oracle Database – show you how to use the STARTUP command to start Oracle Database instance
Shutdown Oracle Database – describe various options to shutdown an Oracle Database instance using the SHUTDOWN command

Section 3. Managing Tablespaces
Oracle tablespace – introduce you to the Oracle tablespace and how Oracle uses tablespaces to store data
CREATE TABLESPACE – show you how to create a new tablespace in the database.
DROP TABLESPACE – learn how to remove a tablespace from the database.
Extend Tablespace – describe various ways to extend the size of a tablespace.
Temporary Tablespace – introduce you to temporary tablespaces and show you how to manipulate temporary tablespace effectively.
Tablespace Group – learn about Oracle temporary tablespace group and how to use the tablespace group more effectively to optimize internal Oracle operations.

Section 4. Users & Privileges
CREATE USER – show you how to create a new user in the Oracle database.
GRANT – learn how to grant system and object privileges to a specific user.
REVOKE – describe how to revoke system and object privileges from a user.
ALTER USER – use the alter statement to modify the authentication or database resource of a database user.
DROP USER – show you how to delete a user from the Oracle Database.
How to Grant All Privileges to a User – learn how to grant all privileges to a user.
How to grant SELECT object privilege on one or more tables to a user – show you how to use grant the SELECT object privilege on one or more table to a user.
How to Unlock a User – learn how to unlock an account.
How to list users in the Oracle Database – show you how to list users in the Oracle Database.

Section 5. Roles
CREATE ROLE – show you how to group object or system privileges into a role and grant the role to users.
SET ROLE – enable and disable roles for your current session.
ALTER ROLE – modify the authorization needed to enable a role.
DROP ROLE – learn how to remove a role from the database.

Section 6. User Profiles
CREATE PROFILE – describe how to create a user profile, which is a set of limits on database resource and password, and assign the profile to a user.
ALTER ROLE – show you how to modify the resource limit and password management in a user profile.
DROP PROFILE – show you how to delete a profile from the Oracle Database.


Section 7. Data Migration
External Tables – show you how to access data from a flat-file as if it were in a table.
SQL*Loader – describe steps on how to load data from a flat-file into a table.
Data Pump Export – learn step by step how to unload data (and meta-data) from the database.
Data Pump Import – guide you on how to load data from an export dump file set into the database.

Section 8. Database Links
Create a database link – show you how to create a database link that allows you to access tables and views from a remote database.
Alter database link – learn how to update the current password of a user of a database link.
Drop a database link – describe how to remove a database link from the database.

Section 9. Useful Tips
Show tables –  list all tables which are owned by the current user, accessible by the current user, or all tables in the Oracle database
How To Fix the “ORACLE initialization or shutdown in progress” error





Quiz
====

Assignment
==========


Resources:
=========